
<p>
<strong>MySQL Commands</strong>
</p>

<p>
Start and Stop mysql server
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start
kojan:~&gt; sudo /etc/init.d/mysql restart
[sudo] password for chris: 
Stopping MySQL database server: mysqld.
Starting MySQL database server: mysqld.
Checking for corrupt, not cleanly closed and upgrade needing tables..</pre>

<p>
Using killall to kill mysql processes
</p>
<pre class="code"># killall mysqld
# ps aux|grep mysql
root     12288  0.0  0.0  3508  448 pts/0    S+   16:23   0:00 grep -i mysql</pre>

<p>
Start SQL Instance
</p>
<pre class="code">sudo mysqld_safe --defaults-file=/etc/mysql/my.cnf &amp;
sudo mysqld_safe --defaults-file=/etc/mysql2/my.cnf &amp;</pre>

<p>
Check Logs
</p>
<pre class="code">mani@mani-ubuntu:~$ sudo tail -f /var/log/syslog</pre>

<p>
Permissions
</p>
<pre class="code">chown -R mysql:mysql *</pre>

<p>
To login (from unix shell) use -h only if needed.
</p>
<pre class="code"># [mysql dir]/bin/mysql -h hostname -u root -p</pre>

<p>
Create a database 
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; create database [databasename];</pre>

<p>
List all databases
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; show databases;</pre>

<p>
Switch to a database
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; use [db name];</pre>

<p>
See all tables
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; show tables;</pre>

<p>
Database field formats
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; describe [table name];</pre>

<p>
Delete Database
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; drop database [database name];</pre>

<p>
Delete Table
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; drop table [table name];</pre>

<p>
Show all data in a table
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name];</pre>

<p>
Returns the columns and column information pertaining to the designated table.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; show columns from [table name];</pre>

<p>
Show certain selected rows with the value “whatever”.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name] WHERE [field name] = &quot;whatever&quot;;</pre>

<p>
Show all records containing the name “Bob” AND the phone number &#039;3444444&#039;.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name] WHERE name = &quot;Bob&quot; AND phone_number = &#039;3444444&#039;;</pre>

<p>
Show all records not containing the name “Bob” AND the phone number &#039;3444444&#039; order by the phone_number field.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name] WHERE name != &quot;Bob&quot; AND phone_number = &#039;3444444&#039; order by phone_number;</pre>

<p>
Show all records starting with the letters &#039;bob&#039; AND the phone number &#039;3444444&#039;.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name] WHERE name like &quot;Bob%&quot; AND phone_number = &#039;3444444&#039;;</pre>

<p>
Show all records starting with the letters &#039;bob&#039; AND the phone number &#039;3444444&#039; limit to records 1 through 5
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name] WHERE name like &quot;Bob%&quot; AND phone_number = &#039;3444444&#039; limit 1,5;</pre>

<p>
Use a regular expression to find records. Use “REGEXP BINARY” to force case-sensitivity. This finds any record beginning with a
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT * FROM [table name] WHERE rec RLIKE &quot;^a&quot;;</pre>

<p>
Show unique records
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT DISTINCT [column name] FROM [table name];</pre>

<p>
Show selected records sorted in an ascending (asc) or descending (desc).
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT [col1],[col2] FROM [table name] ORDER BY [col2] DESC;</pre>

<p>
Return number of rows
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT COUNT(*) FROM [table name];</pre>

<p>
Sum column.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; SELECT SUM(*) FROM [table name];</pre>

<p>
Join tables on common columns.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; select lookup.illustrationid, lookup.personid,person.birthday from lookup left join person
on lookup.personid=person.personid=statement to join birthday in person table with primary illustration id;</pre>

<p>
Creating a new user. Login as root. Switch to the MySQL db. Make the user. Update privileges.
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysql -u root -p
mysql&gt; use mysql;
mysql&gt; INSERT INTO user (Host,User,Password)
VALUES(&#039;%&#039;,&#039;username&#039;,PASSWORD(&#039;password&#039;));
mysql&gt; flush privileges;</pre>

<p>
Change a users password from unix shell.
</p>
<pre class="code"># [mysql dir]/bin/mysqladmin -u username -h hostname.blah.org -p password &#039;new-password&#039;</pre>

<p>
Change a users password from MySQL prompt. Login as root. Set the password. Update privileges.
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysql -u root -p
mysql&gt; SET PASSWORD FOR &#039;user&#039;@&#039;hostname&#039; =
PASSWORD(&#039;passwordhere&#039;);
mysql&gt; flush privileges;</pre>

<p>
Recover a MySQL root password. Stop the MySQL server process. Start again with no grant tables.
Login to MySQL as root. Set new password. Exit MySQL and restart MySQL server.
</p>
<pre class="code"># /etc/init.d/mysql stop
# mysqld_safe --skip-grant-tables &amp;
# mysql -u root
mysql&gt; use mysql;
mysql&gt; update user set password=PASSWORD(&quot;newrootpassword&quot;)
where User=&#039;root&#039;;
mysql&gt; flush privileges;
mysql&gt; quit
# /etc/init.d/mysql stop
# /etc/init.d/mysql start</pre>

<p>
Set a root password if there is on root password.
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root password newpassword</pre>

<p>
Update a root password.
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p oldpassword newpassword</pre>

<p>
Allow the user “mani” to connect to the server from localhost using the password “passwd”. Login as
root. Switch to the MySQL db. Give privileges. Update privileges.
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysql -u root -p
mysql&gt; use mysql;
mysql&gt; grant usage on *.* to mani@localhost identified by &#039;passwd&#039;;
mysql&gt; flush privileges;</pre>

<p>
Give user privilages for a db. Login as root. Switch to the MySQL db. Grant privileges. Update privileges.
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysql -u root -p
mysql&gt; use mysql;
mysql&gt; INSERT INTO db
(Host,Db,User,Select_priv,Insert_priv,Update_priv,Delete_priv ,Create_priv,Drop_priv) VALUES
(&#039;%&#039;,&#039;databasename&#039;,&#039;username&#039;,&#039;Y&#039;,&#039;Y&#039;,&#039;Y&#039;,&#039;Y&#039;,&#039;Y&#039;,&#039;N&#039;);
mysql&gt; flush privileges;

or

mysql&gt; grant all privileges on databasename.* to
username@localhost;
mysql&gt; flush privileges</pre>

<p>
To update info already in a table
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; UPDATE [table name] SET Select_priv = &#039;Y&#039;,Insert_priv = &#039;Y&#039;,Update_priv = &#039;Y&#039; where [field name] = &#039;user&#039;;</pre>

<p>
Delete a row(s) from a table
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; DELETE from [table name] where [field name] = &#039;whatever&#039;;</pre>

<p>
Update database permissions/privilages
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; flush privileges;</pre>

<p>
Delete a column.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; alter table [table name] drop column [column name];</pre>

<p>
Add a new column to db
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; alter table [table name] add column [new column name] varchar (20);</pre>

<p>
Change column name.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; alter table [table name] change [old column name] [new column name] varchar (50);</pre>

<p>
Make a unique column so you get no duplicates.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; alter table [table name] add unique ([column name]);</pre>

<p>
Make a column bigger.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; alter table [table name] modify [column name] VARCHAR(3);</pre>

<p>
Delete unique from table.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; alter table [table name] drop index [colmn name];</pre>

<p>
Load a CSV file into a table.
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; LOAD DATA INFILE &#039;/tmp/filename.csv&#039; replace INTO TABLE [table name] FIELDS TERMINATED BY &#039;,&#039; LINES TERMINATED BY &#039;\n&#039; (field1,field2,field3);</pre>

<p>
Dump all databases for backup. Backup file is sql commands to recreate all db&#039;s.
</p>
<pre class="code"># [mysql dir]/bin/mysqldump -u root -ppassword --opt &gt;/tmp/alldatabases.sql</pre>

<p>
Dump one database for backup.
</p>
<pre class="code"># [mysql dir]/bin/mysqldump -u username -ppassword --databases databasename &gt;/tmp/databasename.sql</pre>

<p>
Dump a table from a database.
</p>
<pre class="code"># [mysql dir]/bin/mysqldump -c -u username -ppassword databasename tablename &gt; /tmp/databasename.tablename.sql</pre>

<p>
Restore database (or database table) from backup.
</p>
<pre class="code"># [mysql dir]/bin/mysql -u username -ppassword databasename &lt; /tmp/databasename.sql</pre>

<p>
Create Table Example 1
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; CREATE TABLE [table name] (firstname VARCHAR(20),
middleinitial VARCHAR(3), lastname VARCHAR(35),suffix
VARCHAR(3),officeid VARCHAR(10),userid VARCHAR(15),username
VARCHAR(8),email VARCHAR(35),phone VARCHAR(25), groups
VARCHAR(15),datestamp DATE,timestamp time,pgpemail
VARCHAR(255));</pre>

<p>
Create Table Example 2
</p>
<pre class="code">mysql&gt; create table [table name] (personid int(50) not null
auto_increment primary key,firstname varchar(35),middlename
varchar(50),lastnamevarchar(50) default &#039;bato&#039;);</pre>

<p>
<strong>20 MySQL (Mysqladmin) Commands for Database Administration in Linux
</strong>
</p>

<p>
1. How to set MySQL Root password?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root password YOURNEWPASSWORD</pre>

<p>
2. How to Change MySQL Root password?
</p>
<pre class="code">mysqladmin -u root -p123456 password &#039;xyz123&#039;</pre>

<p>
3. How to check MySQL Server is running?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p ping

Enter password:
mysqld is alive</pre>

<p>
4. How to Check which MySQL version I am running?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p version

Enter password:
mysqladmin  Ver 8.42 Distrib 5.5.28, for Linux on i686
Copyright (c) 2000, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Server version          5.5.28
Protocol version        10
Connection              Localhost via UNIX socket
UNIX socket             /var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock
Uptime:                 7 days 14 min 45 sec

Threads: 2  Questions: 36002  Slow queries: 0  Opens: 15  Flush tables: 1  Open tables: 8  Queries per second avg: 0.059</pre>

<p>
5. How to Find out current Status of MySQL server?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -ptmppassword status

Enter password:
Uptime: 606704  Threads: 2  Questions: 36003  Slow queries: 0  Opens: 15  Flush tables: 1  Open tables: 8  Queries per second avg: 0.059</pre>

<p>
6. How to check status of all MySQL Server Variable’s and value’s?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p extended-status

Enter password:
+------------------------------------------+-------------+
| Variable_name                            | Value       |
+------------------------------------------+-------------+
| Aborted_clients                          | 3           |
| Aborted_connects                         | 3           |
| Binlog_cache_disk_use                    | 0           |
| Binlog_cache_use                         | 0           |
| Binlog_stmt_cache_disk_use               | 0           |
| Binlog_stmt_cache_use                    | 0           |
| Bytes_received                           | 6400357     |
| Bytes_sent                               | 2610105     |
| Com_admin_commands                       | 3           |
| Com_assign_to_keycache                   | 0           |
| Com_alter_db                             | 0           |
| Com_alter_db_upgrade                     | 0           |
| Com_alter_event                          | 0           |
| Com_alter_function                       | 0           |
| Com_alter_procedure                      | 0           |
| Com_alter_server                         | 0           |
| Com_alter_table                          | 0           |
| Com_alter_tablespace                     | 0           |
+------------------------------------------+-------------+</pre>

<p>
7. How to see all MySQL server Variables and Values?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin  -u root -p variables

Enter password:
+---------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Variable_name                                     | Value                                        |
+---------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| auto_increment_increment                          | 1                                            |
| auto_increment_offset                             | 1                                            |
| autocommit                                        | ON                                           |
| automatic_sp_privileges                           | ON                                           |
| back_log                                          | 50                                           |
| basedir                                           | /usr                                         |
| big_tables                                        | OFF                                          |
| binlog_cache_size                                 | 32768                                        |
| binlog_direct_non_transactional_updates           | OFF                                          |
| binlog_format                                     | STATEMENT                                    |
| binlog_stmt_cache_size                            | 32768                                        |
| bulk_insert_buffer_size                           | 8388608                                      |
| character_set_client                              | latin1                                       |
| character_set_connection                          | latin1                                       |
| character_set_database                            | latin1                                       |
| character_set_filesystem                          | binary                                       |
| character_set_results                             | latin1                                       |
| character_set_server                              | latin1                                       |
| character_set_system                              | utf8                                         |
| character_sets_dir                                | /usr/share/mysql/charsets/                   |
| collation_connection                              | latin1_swedish_ci                            |
+---------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------+</pre>

<p>
8. How to check all the running Process of MySQL server?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p processlist

Enter password:
+-------+---------+-----------------+---------+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| Id    | User    | Host            | db      | Command | Time | State | Info             |
+-------+---------+-----------------+---------+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| 18001 | rsyslog | localhost:38307 | rsyslog | Sleep   | 5590 |       |                  |
| 18020 | root    | localhost       |         | Query   | 0    |       | show processlist |
+-------+---------+-----------------+---------+---------+------+-------+------------------+</pre>

<p>
9. How to create a Database in MySQL server?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p create databasename

Enter password:</pre>
<pre class="code"># mysql -u root -p

Enter password:
Welcome to the MySQL monitor.  Commands end with ; or \g.
Your MySQL connection id is 18027
Server version: 5.5.28 MySQL Community Server (GPL) by Remi

Copyright (c) 2000, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Type &#039;help;&#039; or &#039;\h&#039; for help. Type &#039;\c&#039; to clear the current input statement.

mysql&gt; show databases;
+--------------------+
| Database           |
+--------------------+
| information_schema |
| databasename       |
| mysql              |
| test               |
+--------------------+
8 rows in set (0.01 sec)

mysql&gt;</pre>

<p>
10. How to drop a Database in MySQL server?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p drop databasename

Enter password:
Dropping the database is potentially a very bad thing to do.
Any data stored in the database will be destroyed.

Do you really want to drop the &#039;databasename&#039; database [y/N] y
Database &quot;databasename&quot; dropped</pre>

<p>
11. How to reload/refresh MySQL Privileges?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p reload;
# mysqladmin -u root -p refresh</pre>

<p>
12. How to shutdown MySQL server Safely?
</p>
<pre class="code">mysqladmin -u root -p shutdown

Enter password:</pre>

<p>
You can also use the following commands to start/stop MySQL server.
</p>
<pre class="code"># /etc/init.d/mysqld stop
# /etc/init.d/mysqld start</pre>

<p>
13. Some useful MySQL Flush commands
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> flush-hosts: Flush all host information from host cache.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> flush-tables: Flush all tables.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> flush-threads: Flush all threads cache.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> flush-logs: Flush all information logs.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> flush-privileges: Reload the grant tables (same as reload).</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> flush-status: Clear status variables.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p flush-hosts
# mysqladmin -u root -p flush-tables
# mysqladmin -u root -p flush-threads
# mysqladmin -u root -p flush-logs
# mysqladmin -u root -p flush-privileges
# mysqladmin -u root -p flush-status</pre>

<p>
14. How to kill Sleeping MySQL Client Process?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p processlist

Enter password:
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| Id | User | Host      | db | Command | Time | State | Info             |
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| 5  | root | localhost |    | Sleep   | 14   |       |					 |
| 8  | root | localhost |    | Query   | 0    |       | show processlist |
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+</pre>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p kill 5

Enter password:
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| Id | User | Host      | db | Command | Time | State | Info             |
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| 12 | root | localhost |    | Query   | 0    |       | show processlist |
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+</pre>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin -u root -p kill 5,10</pre>

<p>
15. How to run multiple mysqladmin commands together?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin  -u root -p processlist status version

Enter password:
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| Id | User | Host      | db | Command | Time | State | Info             |
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
| 8  | root | localhost |    | Query   | 0    |       | show processlist |
+----+------+-----------+----+---------+------+-------+------------------+
Uptime: 3801  Threads: 1  Questions: 15  Slow queries: 0  Opens: 15  Flush tables: 1  Open tables: 8  Queries per second avg: 0.003
mysqladmin  Ver 8.42 Distrib 5.5.28, for Linux on i686
Copyright (c) 2000, 2012, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.

Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its
affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective
owners.

Server version          5.5.28
Protocol version        10
Connection              Localhost via UNIX socket
UNIX socket             /var/lib/mysql/mysql.sock
Uptime:                 1 hour 3 min 21 sec

Threads: 1  Questions: 15  Slow queries: 0  Opens: 15  Flush tables: 1  Open tables: 8  Queries per second avg: 0.003</pre>

<p>
16. How to Connect remote mysql server
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin  -h 172.16.25.126 -u root -p</pre>

<p>
17. How to execute command on remote MySQL server
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin  -h 172.16.25.126 -u root -p status</pre>

<p>
18. How to start/stop MySQL replication on a slave server?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin  -u root -p start-slave
# mysqladmin  -u root -p stop-slave</pre>

<p>
19. How to store MySQL server Debug Information to logs?
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin  -u root -p debug

Enter password:</pre>

<p>
20. How to view mysqladmin options and usage
</p>
<pre class="code"># mysqladmin --help</pre>

<p>
Useful commands: <a href="http://crashmag.net/list-of-useful-mysql-commands" class="urlextern" title="http://crashmag.net/list-of-useful-mysql-commands"  rel="nofollow">http://crashmag.net/list-of-useful-mysql-commands</a>
</p>

<p>
<strong>Drush Check Database with Website credentials
</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">mani@relentless:/srv/www/VRE/sites/etc.lib.unb.ca.acva.contestedterrain&gt; drush sql-cli</pre>
