
<p>
PHP started out as a small open source project that evolved as more and more people found out how useful it was. Rasmus Lerdorf unleashed the first version of PHP way back in 1994.
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP is a recursive acronym for “PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor”.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP is a server side scripting language that is embedded in <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr>. It is used to manage dynamic content, databases, session tracking, even build entire e-commerce sites.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It is integrated with a number of popular databases, including MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, Sybase, Informix, and Microsoft SQL Server.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP is pleasingly zippy in its execution, especially when compiled as an Apache module on the Unix side. The MySQL server, once started, executes even very complex queries with huge result sets in record-setting time.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP supports a large number of major protocols such as POP3, IMAP, and LDAP. PHP4 added support for Java and distributed object architectures (COM and CORBA), making n-tier development a possibility for the first time.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP is forgiving: PHP language tries to be as forgiving as possible.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP Syntax is C-Like.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<h2 class="sectionedit1" id="common_uses_of_php">Common uses of PHP</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP performs system functions, i.e. from files on a system it can create, open, read, write, and close them.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP can handle forms, i.e. gather data from files, save data to a file, thru email you can send data, return data to the user.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> You add, delete, modify elements within your database thru PHP.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Access cookies variables and set cookies.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Using PHP, you can restrict users to access some pages of your website.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> It can encrypt data.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "Common uses of PHP" [1111-1607] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="characteristics_of_php">Characteristics of PHP</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Five important characteristics make PHP&#039;s practical nature possible:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Simplicity</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Efficiency</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Security</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Flexibility</div>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Familiarity</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Characteristics of PHP" [1608-] -->