
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="php">PHP</h1>
<div class="level1">

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "PHP" [1-18] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="php_configuration">PHP Configuration</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Default Settings: php.ini (we can put php.ini in the folder of webpage that applies to that folder).
php.ini can load extensions i.e. mysql
</p>

<p>
<strong>PHP settings
</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">&lt;?php
phpinfo();
?&gt;</pre>

<p>
Other settings include max_execution_time and memory_limit. <br/>

We can also set configuration options using ini_set() and ini_get() functions.
</p>
<pre class="code">ini_set(&#039;display_errors&#039;, &#039;On&#039;);</pre>

<p>
<strong>Enable Debugging</strong>
</p>

<p>
debugging and warning messages
</p>
<pre class="code">error_reporting(E_ALL);;
ini_set(&#039;display_errors&#039;,&#039;On&#039;);</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "PHP Configuration" [19-564] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="variables">Variables</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Note (Do not need to declare variables before using them)<br/>

Variables can hold different types at different times,
</p>
<pre class="code">$var = 4;
$var = &#039;This text&#039;;</pre>

<p>
<strong>Assignment</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">// Strings
$yummy = &quot;potato&quot;;

// Number Variables
$c = 3;
print &quot;&lt;p&gt;&quot;. $c/2 . &quot;&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;</pre>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Variables used within a function are local only to that function.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> They cannot be accessed outside the function.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If you want a variable to be available to every function, make it global.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code">// Global Variables
$global_var = 4;
function foo()
{
  global $global_var;
  print $globalvar;
}</pre>

<p>
<strong>PHP Magic Variables
</strong>
</p>

<p>
Super global arrays created by PHP when you view a site. <br/>

All of these arrays contain useful information that you can use in making your website. <br/>

</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> $_GET</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> $_POST</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> $_REQUEST</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> $_SERVER</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> $_COOKIE</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> $_SESSION</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>$_GET
</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> contains parameters passed to your script from the browser</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> GET parameters are visible in your <abbr title="Uniform Resource Locator">URL</abbr> bar, unlike POST parameter</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code">    http://example.com/index.php?key1=value1&amp;key2=value2&amp;
    $_GET[&#039;key1&#039;] == &#039;value1&quot;
    $_GET[&#039;key2&#039;] == &#039;value2&quot;</pre>

<p>
<strong>$_POST</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> works like $_GET except that parameters aren`t passed in the <abbr title="Uniform Resource Locator">URL</abbr>.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Recommended way to pass form data - so it won`t be easily visible and changeable.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>$_REQUEST
</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Union of $_GET, $_SET and $_COOKIE</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> used in situations where you don`t really care where the input comes from</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Variables" [565-2017] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit4" id="comments">Comments</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">//This is a comment.
/* This is also a comment.
*/</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT4 SECTION "Comments" [2018-2106] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit5" id="expressions">Expressions</h2>
<div class="level2">
<pre class="code">$c = 3.141592653;
$c + 1; //4.141592653
2*($c + 1); //8.283185306
// Assignments to evaluate
$c = 5; //5</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT5 SECTION "Expressions" [2107-2252] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit6" id="operators">Operators</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
The ones to remember,
</p>
<pre class="code">.  String Concatenation
-&gt; Member Field/function</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT6 SECTION "Operators" [2253-2361] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit7" id="string_quoting">String Quoting</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Double Quote (can have values embedded in them, not interpreted literally).<br/>

Single Quote (interpreted literally).
</p>
<pre class="code">$food = &quot;potatoes&quot;;
$double_quoted = &quot;I like to eat $food.&quot;;
$single_quoted = &quot;I like to eat $food.&quot;;

print &quot;&lt;p&gt;$double_quoted&lt;/p&gt;&quot;; // Prints I like to eat potatoes 
print &quot;&lt;p&gt;$single_quoted&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;// Prints I like to eat $food</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT7 SECTION "String Quoting" [2362-2750] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit8" id="arrays">Arrays</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Arrays are collections of values.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP arrays are sort of like Python dictionaries.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Accessed via a key.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Each key is associated with exactly one value.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A key may be integer, string or other type.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Arrays Indexing</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">$languages = array(&#039;PHP&#039;,&#039;Java&#039;,&#039;C++&#039;,&#039;Python&#039;);
//******************************************************************
print &quot;&lt;p&gt;The first language is &quot; . $languages[0] . &quot;!&lt;/p&gt;&quot;; // PHP
print &quot;&lt;p&gt;The first language is &quot; . $languages[1] . &quot;!&lt;/p&gt;&quot;; // Java</pre>

<p>
<strong>Add value to Array</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">$languages[] = &quot;Perl&quot;;</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT8 SECTION "Arrays" [2751-3339] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit9" id="conditional">Conditional</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Whatever you supply as condition is converted to a boolean. <br/>

False (boolean value false, number 0, zero length strings, null, zero length errors)
</p>
<pre class="code">if($favorite_color == &quot;blue&quot;)
{
   // Code
}
else if ($favorite_color == &quot;red&quot;)
{
  // Code
}
else
{
  // Code
}</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT9 SECTION "Conditional" [3340-3641] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit10" id="loops">Loops</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<strong>For</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">$languages = array(&#039;PHP&#039;, &#039;Java&#039;, &#039;C++&#039;, &#039;Python&#039;);

for($c = 0; $c &lt; count($languages); $c++)
{
  $lang = $languages[$c];
  print &quot;&lt;p&gt;The language at index $c is $lang.&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
}</pre>

<p>
<strong>Foreach</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">//Array using non integer keys

$languages = array(&#039;best&#039; =&gt; &#039;PHP&#039;, &#039;tastiest&#039; =&gt; &#039;Java&#039;, &#039;funkiest&#039; =&gt; &#039;Scheme&#039;);

// with keys
foreach($languages as $adjective =&gt; $lang)
{
  print &quot;&lt;p&gt;The $adjective language is $lang.&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
}

// without keys
foreach($languages as $lang)
{
  print &quot;&lt;p&gt;$lang is a programming language.&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
}</pre>

<p>
<strong>Functions</strong>
</p>

<p>
Functions can return values. <br/>

</p>
<pre class="code">$num = count($arr); // count returns size of array $arr
return $num</pre>
<pre class="code">function hereIsAFunction()
{
  print &quot;This is a function.&quot;;
  print &quot;It doesn`t really do very much.&quot;;
}</pre>
<pre class="code">function countDown($start)
{
  while($start &gt;= 0)
  {
    print &quot;&lt;p&gt;$start...&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
    $start--;
  }
}

function squareNumber($x)
{
  return $x * $x;
}</pre>

<p>
<strong>Useful functions
</strong>
</p>

<p>
<strong>isset($var) and some useful functions</strong>
</p>
<ol>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Returns true if $var has been set.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> isset($favorite_color)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> isset($_GET[&#039;name&#039;]) will return true if $_GET[&#039;name&#039;] has a value</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> explode($delimiter, $string) breaks up $string into an array of substrings, separating using $delimiter</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> count()</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> print_r($array) prints an array, useful for debugging</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> require_once($filename) includes another file</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> ini_set($setting, value) - configuration settings</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> header($data) - if at the beginning, outputs HTTP header data, can be used for redirects i.e. to secure HTTPS pages.</div>
</li>
</ol>

</div>
<!-- EDIT10 SECTION "Loops" [3642-5251] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit11" id="classes">Classes</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Classes are bundles of variables and functions that should be grouped together.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> :: Scoping resolution operator - to access super-class and call its functions.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> → operator to access functions/fields of classes</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Fields and functions can be public and private</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code">class user
{
   public $ID;
   public $first_name;
   public $last_name;
   
  // Constructor  
  function __construct($first, $last, $id)
  {
    $this-&gt;ID = $id;
    $this-&gt;first_name = $first;
    $this-&gt;last_name = $last;
  }
  function getName()
  {
    return $this-&gt;first_name . &quot; &quot; . $this-&gt;last_name;
  }
  function toString()
  {
    return $this-&gt;getName() . &quot;(&quot; . $this-&gt;ID . &quot;)&quot;;
  }
}
</pre>

<p>
<strong>Extend classes
</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">class facebook_user extends user
{
  public $network;
  // Construction
  function __construct($first, $last, $id, $net)
  {
    // Use old constructor
    parent::__construct($first, $last, $id);
    $this-&gt;network = $net;
  }
  
  //Override
  function toString()
  {
    return $this-&gt;getName() . &quot;(&quot;. $this-&gt;network . &quot;)&quot;;
  }
}</pre>

<p>
Now, we will use the class,
</p>
<pre class="code">$some_user = new user(&quot;Steve&quot;, &quot;Levine&quot;, &quot;123&quot;);

print &quot;&lt;p&gt;&quot;.$some_user-&gt;toString().&quot;&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;

$another_user = new facebook_user(&quot;Steve&quot;,&quot;Levine&quot;,&quot;123&quot;,&quot;MIT&quot;);

print &quot;&lt;p&gt;&quot;.$another_user-&gt;toString().&quot;&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT11 SECTION "Classes" [5252-6581] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit12" id="php_cookies_and_sessions">PHP Cookies and Sessions</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
<strong>Cookies</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Cookies are little data files that websites can store on your system.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Cookies are used to store information about the user, or the website state on the computer.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Cookie information exchange happens at the beginning of the HTTP protocol.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
Commonly used form,
</p>
<pre class="code">// Keep it at the top of your code
bool setcookie($name, $value, $expire)</pre>

<p>
<strong>Cookies Example</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">&lt;?php
// Cookies happen at the beginning

// See if we have stored a cookie yet.
if (isset($_COOKIE[&#039;username&#039;]))
{
  // The cookie is set. This means there is a non expired cookie, so the user was already here.
  $username = $_COOKIE[&#039;username&#039;];
  print &quot;&lt;h1&gt;Welcome Back&lt;/h1&gt;&quot;;
  print &quot;&lt;p&gt;I see you have been here before, $username!&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
}
else
{
  // The cookie is not set, so assume that the user has not been there
  // Check and see if user just submitted.
  if (isset($_POST[&#039;username&#039;]))
  {
    // The user just submitted, Store a cookie
    $username = $_POST[&#039;username&#039;];
    setcookie(&#039;username&#039;, $username, time() + 120);
    print &quot;&lt;h1&gt;Nice to meet you!&lt;/h1&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;&lt;p&gt;It is nice to meet you, $username!&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
  }
  else
  {
    //The user didn`t submit, and we don`t have a cookie.
    // Display a form
    print &quot;&lt;h1&gt;Hello Stranger!&lt;/h1&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;&lt;p&gt;What is your name?&lt;/p&gt;&quot;
    print &quot;&lt;form method =\ &quot;POST\&quot; action=\ &quot;cookie.php\&quot;&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;Username: &lt;input type =\ &quot;text\&quot; name=\ &quot;username\&quot; /&gt;;
    print &quot;&lt;input type=\&quot; submit\&quot; value=\ &quot;Hello!\&quot; /&gt;;
    print &quot;&lt;form&gt;&quot;;
  }
}

?&gt;</pre>

<p>
<strong>Sessions
</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Sessions are another way to store information about your websites users, kind of like cookies.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Unlike cookies, sessions are stored on the server, not on client computer.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Less chances out there of this data being tampered or altered as you have control of it on the server.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Data stored in sessions can be accessed across different pages in your website.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> There is a magic, super global array called $_SESSION. It acts like $_GET, $_POST, and $_REQUEST.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> To save information, you get a string valued key of $_SESSION to the data you want.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> After you get a session variable, it is visible to all other pages on your website.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> You can use sessions to implement a login system, shopping carts.</div>
</li>
</ul>
<pre class="code">$_SESSION[&#039;name&#039;] = &#039;William B.Rogers&#039;;</pre>

<p>
<strong>Session Example</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">&lt;?php
// Sessions also must happen at the beginning of HTTP
session_start();

if(isset($_SESSION[&#039;username&#039;]))
{
  // The cookie is set, this means that there is a non expired cookie, so the user was already here
  $username = $_SESSION[&#039;username&#039;];
  print &quot;&lt;h1&gt;Welcome back!&lt;/h1&gt;&quot;;
  print &quot;&lt;p&gt;I see you have been here before, $username!&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
}
else
{
  // has not been here yet.
  
  // Check and see if the user just submitted.
  if (isset($_POST[&#039;username&#039;]))
  {
     $username = $_POST[&#039;username&#039;];
     $_SESSION[&#039;username&#039;] = $username;
     print &quot;&lt;h1&gt;Nice to meet you!&lt;/h1&gt;&quot;;
     print &quot;&lt;p&gt;It is nice to meet you, $username!&lt;/p&gt;&quot; 
  }
  else
  {
    // The user did not submit, we don`t have a cookie,
    // Display a form
    print &quot;&lt;h1&gt;Hello, stranger!&lt;/h1&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;&lt;p&gt;What is your name?&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;&lt;form method=\ &quot;POST\&quot; action=\ &quot;session.php\ &quot;&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;Username: &lt;input type=\ &quot;text\&quot; name=\ &quot;username\&quot; /&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;&lt;input type=\ &quot;submit\&quot; value=\ &quot;Hello!\&quot; /&gt;&quot;;
    print &quot;&lt;form&gt;&quot;;
  }
}
?&gt;</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT12 SECTION "PHP Cookies and Sessions" [6582-10006] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit13" id="database_connectivity">Database Connectivity</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
Access MySQL db is via the MySQLi extension for PHP.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Using MySQLi</strong>
</p>

<p>
MySQLi represents a connection
MySQLi_STMT represents a query
MySQLi_Result represents the result of a query
</p>
<pre class="code">&lt;?php
//For debugging, turn on error output
ini_set(&#039;display errors&#039;,&#039;On&#039;);
error_reporting(E_ALL);

// CONNECT
//************************************************************************
//If DB username and password are in a separate file, lets import them.
require_once(&#039;private/mysql_info.php&#039;);

// Make an MySQLi class, representing a connection to the MySQL database.
$conn = new mysqli(&#039;MYSQL HOST&#039;, MYSQL_USER,MYSQL_PASSWORD, &#039;DATABASE-NAME&#039;);

// See if connection was successful
if(mysqli_connect_errno())
{
  print &quot;&lt;p&gt;Couldn`t connect to the mysql server, Bummer!&lt;/p&gt;&quot;;
  exit();
}
//*************************************************************************
// Prepare the query
// bind_params: Fill in all of the ? in the query string with the values.
// First argument is the type, s for string, i for int etc.
//*************************************************************************
// If we get here, it means the connection has been made
// Prepare a query
$query = $conn-&gt;prepare(&quot;SELECT * FROM people WHERE gender=?&quot;);

// Bind parameters, corresponding to ?s
$gender = &#039;Male&#039;;
$query-&gt;bind_param(&#039;s&#039;,$gender);
//*************************************************************************
//Execute query
$query-&gt;execute();
//*************************************************************************
// Now process the results.
// First bind variables corresponding to columns in our results:
$query-&gt;bind_result($name, $course, $gender, $fav_prog_lang);
print &quot;&lt;table&gt;&lt;tr&gt;&lt;td&gt;Name&lt;/td&gt;&lt;td&gt;Course&lt;/td&gt;&lt;td&gt;Gender&lt;/td&gt;&lt;td&gt;Favorite Programming Language&lt;/td&gt;&lt;/tr&gt;&quot;;

// Continually fetch new results.
// Put answers in the bound variables.
// Keep going until no more results to fetch.

while($query-&gt;fetch())
{
  print &quot;&lt;tr&gt;&lt;td&gt;$name&lt;/td&gt;&lt;td&gt;$course&lt;/td&gt;&lt;td&gt;gender&lt;/td&gt;&lt;td&gt;$fav_prog_lang&lt;/td&gt;&lt;/tr&gt;&quot;;
}

print &quot;&lt;/table&gt;&quot;;
//***************************************************************************************
// Close the connection
$conn-&gt;close();
?&gt;</pre>

<p>
<strong>Output</strong>
</p>
<pre class="code">Name   Course Gender Favorite Programming Language
Steve  6      Male   PHP   
Bob    8      Male   C++</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT13 SECTION "Database Connectivity" [10007-12342] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit14" id="security">Security</h2>
<div class="level2">

<p>
MySQL security is very important.
</p>

<p>
Opening the doors of injection attacks? this code will do,
</p>
<pre class="code">$result = $conn-&gt;query(&quot;SELECT * FROM people WHERE name=\ &quot;$name\ &quot;&quot;);</pre>

<p>
Assume that $name is retrieved directly from form data (i.e., $name = $_POST[&#039;name&#039;];)
</p>

<p>
It works just fine if $name is Mani.
</p>

<p>
Malicious user types this instead of Mani: 
</p>
<pre class="code">&quot;; DROP people; SELECT * FROM foo WHERE name=&quot;</pre>

<p>
so MySQL query string becomes,
</p>
<pre class="code">SELECT * FROM people WHERE name=&quot;&quot;; DROP people;
SELECT * FROM foo WHERE name = &quot;&quot;;</pre>

<p>
Someone has just deleted our MySQL table.
</p>

<p>
<strong>Solution</strong>
</p>

<p>
Escape any text used in a MySQL query.<br/>

bind_param in MySQLi does that automatically.
</p>

<p>
<strong>XSS Attacks</strong>
</p>

<p>
<em>Cross Site Scripting.
</em>
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Data entered by one user is visible to another but what if a malicious user wants to enter <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> or Javascript into the database in a forum post. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> If PHP outputs this data as is, it will be interpreted by the browser as <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr>. The hacker`s entry will close off the <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> and start executing JavaScript. </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> A hacker could potentially read and send off your cookies (perhaps via HTTPRequests/AJAX). </div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> PHP Sessions are implemented by storing a session ID cookie on the computer. If this is stolen, someone else can impersonate you on the websites. This is Session hijacking.</div>
</li>
</ul>

<p>
<strong>Solution</strong>
</p>

<p>
<strong>use htmlspecialchars()
</strong>
</p>

<p>
Takes as input a string, encodes it in a way that the content remains the same but it will not be interpreted as <abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr>.
</p>
<pre class="code">htmlspecialchars(&#039;&lt;script&gt;alert(&quot;XSS!&quot;);&lt;/script&gt;&#039;,
ENT_QUOTES) will output:

&amp;lt;script&amp;gt;alert(&amp;quot;XSS!&amp;quot;);&amp;lt;/script&amp;gt;</pre>

</div>
<!-- EDIT14 SECTION "Security" [12343-13996] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit15" id="cool_stuff">Cool Stuff</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Send emails using email() function.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Download other webpages using cURL (nifty for getting price quotes or directions)</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Generate images using GD usesful for creating CAPTCHA systems</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Encryption through mcrypt</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT15 SECTION "Cool Stuff" [13997-] -->